# Emotion Shifts Analysis During Covid
The COVID-19 pandemic has greatly, gradually changed people’s emotions and views towards almost everything. Social media platforms, such as Twitter, have been crucial for people to express these emotions in real-time. There are several studies examining social media sentiment during the pandemic, most of which aim at understanding the overall sentiment distribution of users’ emotions. However, the temporal dynamics or shifts of these emotional responses during distinct phases of the pandemic—such as the initial outbreak, lockdown periods, vaccine rollout, and post-pandemic transitions, and the moving trend of individual’s emotions throughout the pandemic are not sufficiently researched (RQ). Exploring these shifts in emotions is essential to better inform public health strategies and tailor communication efforts to improve community resilience and mental health during ongoing and future health crises (Why).  
Our research will track emotional changes over time at both individual and collective level, either within fixed length timeframes (weekly, monthly, etc.), or across predefined stages, which are correlated with major events of the pandemic. We will utilize pre-collected Twitter datasets ranging from 2020 to 2023. We aim to analyze sentiment from two perspectives: valence refers to the positivity or negativity of the emotion, and arousal indicates the level of physiological and psychological activation associated with the emotion (How).  
References:  
Hagen, Daniel, A. Y. Lai, and E. Goldmann. "Trends in negative emotions throughout the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States." Public Health 212 (2022): 4-6.
Li, Xiaoya, et al. "Analyzing COVID-19 on online social media: Trends, sentiments and emotions." arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.14464 (2020).
Xavier, Teenu, and Joshua Lambert. "Sentiment and emotion trends in nurses' tweets about the COVID‐19 pandemic." Journal of Nursing Scholarship 54.5 (2022): 613-622.
Banda, Juan M., et al. "A large-scale COVID-19 Twitter chatter dataset for open scientific research—an international collaboration." Epidemiologia 2.3 (2021): 315-324.
# LexiBoost: AI-Driven Lexical Optimization for Social Media Popularity
In today’s social media landscape, one of the major purposes to post is to gain attraction (Why). Meanwhile, some researchers show how lexical choice can affect audiences’ perception. Although there are existing tools such as grammar checkers that aim to polish text for correctness, our research hopes to explore the possibilities of enhancing post popularity by leveraging AI and previous lexical choice research (RQ).  
There are several ways to do this, a straightforward way is to just take the original post as a prompt for LLM and fully rely on its ability. However, we can enhance it with previous research results. For example, some previous research has revealed methods to identify which words are more popular. Such selected words can act as domain knowledge for polish tasks and will get used with RAG technologies. (How)  
References:  
Wang, Zhao, and Aron Culotta. "When do words matter? Understanding the impact of lexical choice on audience perception using individual treatment effect estimation." Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence. Vol. 33. No. 01. 2019.
Tan, Chenhao, Lillian Lee, and Bo Pang. "The effect of wording on message propagation: Topic-and author-controlled natural experiments on Twitter." arXiv preprint arXiv:1405.1438 (2014).